:memo: announce first keynote (#59)
djangocon/2025.djangocon.us: src/_content/posts/keynote-carson.md

---
author:  Communications Team
category: General
published_datetime: 2025-07-27 06:00:00-04:00 
title: "Announcing Our Keynotes: Carson Gross"

cover:
    url: /assets/img/2025/Carson.png
    alt: "Announcing Our Keynotes"
---

### We're honored to announce our first keynote speaker for DjangoCon US 2025: Carson Gross

We had the opportunity to sit down with Carson and ask him a few questions about his work, his upcoming talk, and what he's looking forward to at DjangoCon US 2025.

## How do you use Django?

> > I do not use Django very often because my main profession is as a teacher and we mainly use Java here. However, the Django community has embraced HTMX, a web library that I created, and so I have a lot of friends in the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> I do not use Django very often because my main profession is teaching and we mainly use Java. However, the Django community has embraced HTMX, a web library that I created, and so I have a lot of friends in the community.
```

## Can you give us a teaser about what your talk is about?

> I will be speaking about the philosophy of Nintendo Game Designer Gunpei Yokoi who created the original Game Boy.  His philosophy translates as "Lateral Thinking with Withered (or Seasoned) Technology" and I am going to apply that thinking to web development, particularly the combination of HTMX & Django.

## What are you most looking forward to at DjangoCon US 2025?

> I am looking forward to meeting people and talking about hypermedia.

## What are your favourite topics at conferences?

> I enjoy technical deep dives in particular, especially when they start from first (or simple) principles.

## How do you view the connections made at conferences?

> I love making connections, but I am pretty remote living in Montana so they tend to be relatively short lived unfortunately.

> ## Can you tell us about your career journey?

Reviewer: Consider moving the question from line 36 to the first question for better flow.

> I went to college thinking I would be a computer programmer, since I enjoyed it in school.  I dropped out of CS due to being overwhelmed in the program I was in.  I ended up getting a job as a programmer anyway because that was what people were hiring for at the time.  I eventually went back to grad school and finished getting a masters in computer science.
>
> After that I worked in the Bay Area in a traditional software company for about a decade, then moved on to found a small company.  I eventually had to sell that company due to partner disagreements and decided to move to Montana and try teaching at Montana State.  Over my working career I also created a few open source projects, the most famous of which is HTMX.

## How did you approach your career growth?

> To be honest it has been pretty chaotic, with many moments that seemed hopeless.

## When did you start speaking at conferences, and what has your experience been like so far?

> > I have been speaking at conferences in 2016, when I gave a talk on ``` intercooler.js ```, the predecessor to HTMX.  It was to an almost empty room.  It's gotten better since then.

Reviewer: I would change "I have been speaking at conferences in 2016" to  "I have been speaking at conferences since 2016"

> > I have been speaking at conferences in 2016, when I gave a talk on ``` intercooler.js ```, the predecessor to HTMX.  It was to an almost empty room.  It's gotten better since then.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> I have been speaking at conferences since 2016, when I gave a talk on ``` intercooler.js ```, the predecessor to HTMX.  It was to an almost empty room.  It's gotten better since then.
```
